hi I'm Ronald wicker parts manager at
trailers of the East Coast in Mocksville
North Carolina today I would like to
talk about regular tires
more specifically you'd like to talk
about the difference between trailer
tires and passenger car tires or light
truck tires on a passenger car tire or
truck tire you're concerned with first
and foremost good traction you're you
the tire has to deal with the portion of
acceleration and braking and it also
premiere on passenger car tire is
creature comfort in other words the
sidewall is on the tire are salt and
flexible so that it doesn't transmit the
the bumps and jars in the road through
the suspension to the driver and
passengers in the vehicle so when we
move to trailer tires you get a
considerably heavier load carrying
capacity and onwards the trailer tire
and st rated tire has a considerably
larger capacity to carry the weight it
also has stiffer sidewalls the polyester
and steel belts that make up the caucus
of the tire or larger in diameter and
often there's considerably more of them
in there the sidewalls are stiffer and
not only to help carry the additional
weight but to eliminate potential sway
in a trailer I've got some examples here
I'd like to share with you I've got
three similar sized tires one of them
being a passenger car tire the second
one being a light truck tire and finally
an ST tires and we're going to quickly
go through and show you some of the
differences on these first one I set up
here it's a 16 inch to 2570 typical
passenger car tire a larger passenger
car tire but if we look on the sidewall
of the tire
there's an immense amount of information
on there if you if you know how to read
it and decode it this particular tire
here
has a maximum load capacity of two
thousand four hundred and three pounds
and a maximum air pressure of 44 pounds
again this is a large passenger car tire
could also be used on issue the or light
truck
you notice how flexible the sidewalls
are on it it's got a this particular one
no that another point here and we'll get
to this later is this one has been run
over inflated from not just a short
period of time but for considerable
amount of time has been run in an
overinflated situation to where is worn
out the center of the tread and the
customer did not get their full use out
of this tire because of a um like to
move now to a LT tire in a similar size
there's a typical LT tire it's also a 16
inch this would look what you would
typically use them use on a pickup truck
1500 up to a you know one time type
truck this here load range e tired um
this one is rated at twenty six hundred
and eighty pounds now we're going to
move to H regular tire this is a 16 inch
St rated tire first thing I would like
to point out is we've got stiff
sidewalls on it we've got a trailer a
tread pattern here that is somewhat
similar to the truck of the passion car
tire that's really made to run cool by
virtue of trailer tires carrying a lot
of weight they have to deal with
temperatures high temperatures heavy
they are the more weight they got on the
hotter they'll run the rubber compounds
in trailer tires or a different compound
they're in passenger car tires or light
truck tires the chemicals in the
compounds on the rubbers are designed to
help dissipate heat so in addition to
the extra-heavy chords there in rst tire
you also have a different rubber
compound chemicals in the compound that
allow it to dissipate heat quickly one
of the most important things that you'll
find on a trailer tire regardless of the
size is the capacity to the weight
capacity we started out here about 2,400
pounds on the passenger for tire similar
sized truck tire we're up to twenty six
hundred and forty pounds capacity very
same size tire here in a trailer tire is
rated at three thousand four hundred and
twenty pounds tremendous difference in
the weight carrying capacity of a
trailer tire all tires not just trailer
tires but all tires will have a date
code on it it's particularly important
on a trailer tire because unlike an
automobile that's usually in service
daily or weekly often trailers sit for
large a long period of time what happens
on all tires is the rubber compounds the
chemical rubber compounds starts to
deteriorate and break down over time
it's not as important on a car or truck
because those vehicles are rolling in
the tires wear out generally before the
tire reaches that point on a trailer
tire the chemicals will start breaking
down the rubber and you'll lead to tower
failures blowouts and tread separation
for no apparent reason
if you look at any tire on the sidewall
here you'll find a date code it will be
closed closed behind the letters that
say do T Department of Transportation
they'll always be four numbers in this
case there's a 19-12 here that what that
means that this tire was manufactured in
the nineteenth week of 2012 the last
thing I'd like to cover is cost there's
a general misconception that trailer
tires are considerably more expensive
than passenger car tires or truck
Tai's and with 30 years of Tire
experience I can tell you that is just a
misconception as a general rule you can
always find a more expensive or a less
expensive tire depending on the dealer
or the brand of the tire wherever you go
but as a general rule the same size tire
in a car tire like truck tire or trailer
tire are very confidently price they are
always almost always in the same price
range and I would highly recommend that
for your trailer you use an ST rated toy
you would certainly get a safer ride and
much more mileage and usefulness and
peace of mind out of the STI I'd like to
thank you for spending a few minutes
learning about trailer tires I hope it's
been informative please do not hesitate
to give us a call at trailers of these
coasts at one eight hundred to eight
four two three seven seven with any
questions you can also visit us on the
way up at WWE trailers acecomm